Quickstart ruby on rails api (#2528)
FusionAuth/fusionauth-site: astro/src/content/quickstarts/quickstart-ruby-on-rails-api.mdx

- `make-change`: This endpoint will allow you to call GET with a `total` amount and receive a response indicating how many nickels and pennies are needed to make change. Valid roles are `customer` and `teller`.
- `panic`: Tellers may call this endpoint to call the police in case of an incident. The only valid role is `teller`.

Both endpoints will be protected such that a valid JSON web token (JWT) will be required in the `Authorization` header in order to be accessed. Additionally, the JWT must have a `roles` claim containing the appropriate role to use the endpoint.

<Aside type="note">
If you simply want to run the application , there is a completed version in the 'complete-application' directory. You can use the following commands to get it up and running if you do not want to create your own.

```shell
cd complete-application
bundle install
bundle e rails s -p 4001
```

You can then follow the instructions in the [Run the API](#run-the-api) section started at Get a Token.
</Aside>

### Initialize The Application

Initialize the Ruby on Rails application using the following:

```
rails new your-application --api
cd your-application
```

> Once this is complete you will see a new directory called `your-application` with several sub directories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once this is complete, you will see a new directory called `your-application` with several sub directories.
```

You need to update the `Gemfile` to include two new dependencies:

```shell
gem 'rack-jwt', git: 'https://github.com/FusionAuth/rack-jwt'
gem 'dotenv-rails'

> ```

Reviewer: This does not work for me, I get an Error.
![Screenshot 2023-09-15 at 2 39 10 PM](https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-site/assets/137117976/a98722c1-ea63-4556-91fe-becd4f88726c)

Your full `Gemfile` will now look like

<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.coderoot + "/complete-application/Gemfile"}
  lang="text"/>

You may need to modify the version of ruby specified in the Gemfile. As long as Rails 7 is supported, you will be fine.

Then, install these new gems.

```shell
bundle install

> ```

Author: This feels like more of an issue on how you have Ruby installed I think.

### Update Routes Config

Update `/config/routes.rb` to include the two new routes that will be created for `/make-change` and `/panic`. Your `routes.rb` file should now match the below code.

<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.coderoot + "/complete-application/config/routes.rb"}
  lang="ruby"/>

### Add Security

> Create a new file to hold your environment variables, directly in the `complete-application` directory called `.env.development`. This new file has two variables that are used to call your FusionAuth instance `FUSIONAUTH_LOCATION` and `CLIENT_ID`, with the values that match below.

Reviewer: Should this be in the `complete-application` directory or the `your-application` directory.  Assuming it should be the `your-application` directory.

> Create a new file to hold your environment variables, directly in the `complete-application` directory called `.env.development`. This new file has two variables that are used to call your FusionAuth instance `FUSIONAUTH_LOCATION` and `CLIENT_ID`, with the values that match below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a new file to hold your environment variables directly in the `your-application` directory called `.env.development`. This new file has two variables that are used to call your FusionAuth instance `FUSIONAUTH_LOCATION` and `CLIENT_ID`, with the values that match below.
```

<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.coderoot + "/complete-application/app/controllers/make_change_controller.rb"}
  lang="ruby"/>

Create a new file for the PanicController `app/controllers/panic_controller.rb`. This controller will verify that the authenticated user has only the `teller` role. It will respond with `Proper role not found for user.` if this role is not found. This route also verifies that this is a `POST` request and if this is not true it will respond with `Only POST method is supported.` If both of these tests are passed the controller will return a successful message of `We've called the police!`.

<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.coderoot + "/complete-application/app/controllers/panic_controller.rb"}
  lang="ruby"/>

## Run the API

Start the API resource server by running:

In a command shell window, navigate to the root directory of your application and run the following command to start the server.

```shell
bundle e rails s -p 4001
```

### Get a Token

> There are [several ways to acquire a token](/docs/v1/tech/oauth/) in FusionAuth, but for this example you will use the [Login API](/docs/v1/tech/apis/login) to keep things simple.

Reviewer: Should mention here that you should open a new terminal window and will be using it window for the commands the following commands. The server is running in the terminal window I was using.

    "tokenExpirationInstant": 1689353059670,
    "user": {
        ...
    }
}
```

### Make the Request

Use the `token` as a `Bearer` token in the `Authorization` header. Make a request to `/make-change` with a query parameter `total=5.12`.

```shell
curl --location 'http://localhost:4001/make-change?total=5.12' \
--header 'Authorization: Bearer <your_token>'
```

Your response should look like this:

```

> We can make change using 20 quarters 1 dimes 0 nickels 2 pennies

Reviewer: I get

{"total":0.0,"message":"We can make change using 20 quarters 1 dimes 0 nickels 2 pennies"}

Notice the Total is 0.

    "tokenExpirationInstant": 1689354123118,
    "user": {
        ...
    }
}
```

Now use that token to call `/make-change` with a query parameter `total=3.24`

```shell
curl --location 'http://localhost:4001/make-change?total=3.24' \
--header 'Authorization: Bearer <your_token>'
```

Your response should look like this:

```

> We can make change using 12 quarters 2 dimes 0 nickels 4 pennies

Reviewer: I get  same

`{"total":0.0,"message":"We can make change using ....`

Notice the Total is 0.

bundle install
bundle e rails s -p 4001
```

You can then follow the instructions in the [Run the API](#run-the-api) section started at Get a Token.
</Aside>

### Initialize The Application

Initialize the Ruby on Rails application using the following:

```
rails new your-application --api
cd your-application
```

Once this is complete, you will see a new directory called `your-application` with several sub directories.

You need to add the following lines to the `Gemfile` in the application root directory to include two new dependencies:

```shell
gem 'rack-jwt', git: 'https://github.com/FusionAuth/rack-jwt'
gem 'dotenv-rails'
```

Your full `Gemfile` will now look like

<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.coderoot + "/complete-application/Gemfile"}
  lang="text"/>

Then, install these new gems, by issuing the following command in your terminal window.

```shell
bundle install
```
### Update Routes Config

Update `/config/routes.rb` to include the two new routes that will be created for `/make-change` and `/panic`. Your `routes.rb` file should now match the below code.

<RemoteCode url={frontmatter.coderoot + "/complete-application/config/routes.rb"}
  lang="ruby"/>

### Add Security

> Create a new file to hold your environment variables directly in the `your-application` directory called `.env.development`. This new file has two variables that are used to call your FusionAuth instance `FUSIONAUTH_LOCATION` and `CLIENT_ID`, with the values that match below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a new file to hold your environment variables directly in the `your-application` directory called `.env.development`. You will need to add two variables that are used to call your FusionAuth instance `FUSIONAUTH_LOCATION` and `CLIENT_ID`, with the values that match below.
```

```text
# for rails

FUSIONAUTH_LOCATION=http://localhost:9011

CLIENT_ID=e9fdb985-9173-4e01-9d73-ac2d60d1dc8e
```

> Utilizing the enviroment variables you just added we can now setup JSON Web Token (JWT) based authentication. Create a new file  `config/initializers/jwt_rack.rb`. This initializer is used to hold configuration settings that are made after all of the frameworks and plugins are loaded. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Utilizing the enviroment variables you just added, you can now setup JSON Web Token (JWT) based authentication. Create a new file  `config/initializers/jwt_rack.rb`. This initializer is used to hold configuration settings that are made after all of the frameworks and plugins are loaded. 
```

    "tokenExpirationInstant": 1689354123118,
    "user": {
        ...
    }
}
```

Now use that token to call `/make-change` with a query parameter `total=3.24`

```shell
curl --location 'http://localhost:4001/make-change?total=3.24' \
--header 'Authorization: Bearer <your_token>'
```

Your response should look like this:

```
We can make change using 12 quarters 2 dimes 0 nickels 4 pennies
```

So far so good. Now let's try to call the `/panic` endpoint. (We're adding the `-i` flag to see the headers of the response)

```shell
curl -i --request POST 'http://localhost:4001/panic' \
--header 'Authorization: Bearer <your_token>'
```

> Your response should look like:

Reviewer: It may be worth noting here that you get the 401 Unauthorized response with the following message.

    "tokenExpirationInstant": 1689353059670,
    "user": {
        ...
    }
}
```

### Make the Request

<Aside type="note">
The code is set up to extract the token from either a cookie or the Authorization header so depending on your preference you can replace `--cookie 'app.at=<your_token>'` with `--header 'Authorization: Bearer <your_token>'` when making requests to the API.
</Aside>

Make a request to `/make-change` with a query parameter `total=1.02`. Use the `token` as the `app.at` cookie.

```shell
curl 'http://localhost:4001/make-change?total=1.02' \
--cookie 'app.at=<your_token>'
```

Alternatively you can make the same request by passing your token in the `Authorization` header.

```shell
curl --location 'http://localhost:4001/make-change?total=1.02' \
--header 'Authorization: Bearer <your_token>'
```

Your response should look like this:

```

> We can make change using 20 quarters 1 dimes 0 nickels 2 pennies

Reviewer 2: Please have this be JSON, as specified in the quickstart instructions.

```

You were authorized, success! You can try making the request without the `--cookie` or with a different string rather than a valid token, and see that you are denied access.

Next call the `/panic` endpoint because you are in trouble!

```shell
curl --location --request POST 'http://localhost:4001/panic' \
--cookie 'app.at=<your_token>'
```

This is a `POST` not a `GET` because you want all your emergency calls to be non-idempotent.

Your response should look like this:

```

> We've called the police!

Reviewer 2: Please have this be JSON.

    "tokenExpirationInstant": 1689354123118,
    "user": {
        ...
    }
}
```

Now use that token to call `/make-change` with a query parameter `total=3.24`

```shell
curl --location 'http://localhost:4001/make-change?total=3.24' \
--cookie 'app.at=<your_token>'
```

Your response should look like this:

```

> We can make change using 12 quarters 2 dimes 0 nickels 4 pennies

Reviewer 2: Please have this be JSON
